1B

1

Engineering Identity is developed through three core events in a feedback loop; The development of engineering skills, recognition of self, and recognition of others (Schell and Hughes, 2017). Although "Engineering Skills" are most commonly assumed to be technical skills, there is a significant social component, as engineers must be able to communicate their ideas with people of varying technical background, as well as those with non-technical backgrounds.
Developing a leadership identity is also important in the development of an engineering identity, as part of an engineers role within projects and society is to assist in the planning and management of tasks. However according to Schell and Hughes 2017, this is a skill that is quite often overlooked or not included within traditional engineering education programmes.
It is still however possible to learn and develop a leadership identity and thus an engineering identity within the tertiary education environment. Technical skills are easily learned through the completeion of classes, however by participating in group assignments and projects student engineers are able to understand tasks and phenomena such as delegation of roles and team dynamics. Additional communication skills can be learnt through student engineers participating in the greater university community, such as by joining societies. This allows students to communicate their ideas and knowledge with those of different background (especially non-technical), which is something that may not occur during the process of normal group assignments 


3

Human Capital
Human capital is the percieved value of an individual, in terms of their skills, knowledge, and experience, by an organisation.

Social Capital
Social capital is a way of describing the different networks that exist between people within a given group/society, and how those interpersonal networks allow the group to function.

Cultural Capital
Cultural capital is a way of describing how our knowledge of society and the world around us afford us different interactions and different networks within society.