Group Activities 2

1a)

informal/incidental - People learn in order to complete tasks and projects that they have been assigned, rather than with the direct intent ot learn
experimental - People in a workplace learn by doing, and by seeing what ideas do and do not work.
context bound - People learn by their context, i.e. by what the people around them know and understand, as it is their interactions with others knowledge and ideas that helps to shape their own understanding of different concepts. Organisational goals and structure also influence this, as different groups within the workplace may be aiming to interpret the results from ideas and experiments in their own way (i.e. salemen looking for a point that is potentially sellable).
Observation of collegues as they complete their tasks helps an individual to learn as some things may be difficult to translate, or things that may have become muscle memory may be forgotten. Collegues may also be able to offer new insight and opinions to things that are not necessarily stated.

Another main way that people learn in the workplace, is from 'sink or swim' style events where they are dropped into the deep end on a existing project, where they are expected to learn the minutiae of a system very quickly in order to fill their role within the project.
It is also possible for people to learn through their interactions outside the workplace, such as if they have a personal interest in things similar to that which they are working on duing work hours (i.e. a telecommunication engineer having an interest in remote control helicopters).
A more rigid form of learning in the workplace is through extra training, whether that be from returning to tertiary education, or be from reciving competency from an RTO.

The focus on learning in a university setting is different in that the focus is on you, and increasing your ability to learn. Whereas in a workplace you are learning to work, and the team and their goals is the focus as opposed to any one individual.



b)

Learning can be a byproduct of workplace experiences.

Group learning
- Observing
- Asking Questions
- Looking for resources

Long Term Learning
- Visiting job sites
- ghosting
- long term obseration

learning in the workplace can be improved by asking peers with greater knowledge, and by asking those who work in roles you wish to work in. Not just pure knowledge, but also industry and job insights.

The aim of the manager is not to support the teams learning as individuals, rather it is to help support the creation of a team learning environment where everyone collaborates and contributes.



4
a)
Indifference, Fear, Overconfidence from imposter syndrome
b)
The students attitude means that they will likely not get a beneficial experience out of their work placement, as they were not willing to interact with the workplace in a way that a normal employee would be expected to.
Their attitude would reflect badly on the university as they were not completing their work to the satisfaction of their employer
c)
The students would not be able to pass their workplace learning as they were not professional, and had issues completing the tasks that were expected of them by their employer.
d)
Role and expectations can be understood by asking the manager/supervisor for clarification, as well as by asking the university for clarification
e)
The students are portrayed as quite unprofessional as they are not able to keep up with the work expected of them, as well as the social interactions they are expected to maintain as part of their work.
f)
More willingness to learn and ask questions about the thinks that they dont know. More flexibility as to what management expects of them.
g)
Development of learning plans, keeping a workplace journal, using your workplace peers as knowledgebases.